# 2013-06-17 :Coding

phase IV
Myles
(En)Coding

## Coding

"per se"

"Data encoded vs data ver se"

Data encoded : eyes see this
Data per se: Plato

signed vs unsigned

little endian
big endian

---

"You get used to it. I don't even see the code"
-- Cypher, The Matrix

---

Encoding

Programmers always look at data encoded.

for example, take this string of 39 characters:

  { "name": "Myels Byrne", "city": "SF" }

What are you looking at?

---

Did you say "JSON"?

If so then you only saw the encoding.

Try again:

  { "name": "Myels Byrne", "city": "SF" }

| Encoding |               | Semantics   |
|:--------:|:-------------:|:-----------:|
| json     | keys & values | user object |

---

Did you say "A persons name & city?"

That may be the semantic menaing of the data but it does not describe the *structure*.

Again:

  { "name": "Myels Byrne", "city": "SF" }

---

Q: Mr Software Engineer, what is this?

> A: A mapping of keys to values.
>     There are two eleemnts in this mapping.
>

#NOTES INCOMPLETE

---

Primitives

  Boolieans: an enum of two values
  Numbers:    1, 1.1, 1/2, 0x10 (hex)
  Strings:
  Symbols:    :bar, +, _, @

Collections are more than one of the primitives arranged in some fashion. Collections can also be of other collections.

the only thing that's really a primitive is zeros and ones, but conventionally speaking...

---

Collections:

  - Lists   - every collection is a list of things*
  - Sets    - a list where all elements are unique, and order doesn't matter
  - Tuples  - a list of fixed length where each position has a specific meaning
      - arguments for a method
      - first line of HTTP
      - special names: pair, triple
  - Maps    - a list keys and values - ie.e. a list of paris where the first items of all pairs form a set
  - Arrays  - a list where all elements are the exact same size

* yes & no

---


| Data "per se"                     | Encoding          |
|:----------------------------------|:------------------|
| strings                           | JSON / CSV / XML  |
| primitives                        | Delimiters        |
| mapping (keys/values)             | Escape Characters |
| sets                              |                   |
| tuples(pairs/triples, left/right) |                   |
| lists                             |                   |


id, question, answer

looks like a list
looks like the items are delimited by the comma

---

What if one of the items in the list should include a comma

  id, question, answer, withcomma, another-element

---

?utf8=✓&query=bamford

query string (key, value)
  http
    get requests after the path
    post - in the body

---

/news/breaking-news/arctic-greening-seen--in-global-warming/story-fnass234-123434646454

collection

a url is not one encoding

  it's quit a bit of data smushed into different encodings that don't clash with each other

https://myles:foo@example.com:3456/foo/bar?baz=qux

pair of protocol and location
  thing that you have to talk, place you have to talk to

location part:
  * [optional] pair of username & password strings (delimiter: colon)
  *

---

www. theaustralian.com.au

---

> article h1 a

list of strings separated by white space

left most thing is the broadest

---

13:09

pigeon holes & arrays

---

13:47

cookie max: 4 kb

---

rich hickey edn

[edn](https://github.com/edn-format/edn)
* first element of triple is symbol, second is keyword (symbol in ruby)

[datomic](http://docs.datomic.com/)

