# The Twelve Virtues of <crossout>Rationality</crossout> Rational Software Development

[Eliezer S. Yudkowsky](http://yudkowsky.net/)

## Curiosity

## Evenness, Lightness, & Relinquishment

> **Surrender** to the **truth** as quickly as possible.

## Argument

Spend the time making an opinion strong, but hold it weakly.

sometimes you have to have an argument, because you need to make a decision

discourage conflict and combat, but argument is not those things

The team is lost if you don't pick the right thing, or find the truth

### Y: Hacker News
- how you talk on hacker news
- look up logical fallicies befor posting anything

## Empiricism & Scholarship

### Empiricism

Testing something; learning by trying

### Scholarship

Reading; finding the right information

#### Textbooks

SICP

## Precision

Don't be vague when you can be precise; there's no power in vagueness.

I'm going to sending you a mapping encoded in JSON
- not a hash

I'm going to send you a triple
- not a list

Path to the dark side: focusing on the similarities everywhere

Engineers look for differences
- finding differences teaches you more

Do this with engineering things, not people/beliefs

## Simplicity

entanglement/complexity

easy/difficult

simplicity/

## Humility

## Perfectionism

## < void >

It doesn't have a name, and it can't have a name. To give it a name would destroy it.

> The primary thing when you take a sword in your hands is your intention to cut the enemy, whatever the means. Whenever you parry, hit, spring, strike or touch the enemy's cutting sword, you must cut the enemy in the same movement. It is essential to attain this. If you think only of hitting, springing, striking or touching the enemy, you will not be able actually to cut him. More than anything, you must be thinking of carrying your movement through to cutting him.
~ **[Miyamoto Musashi](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miyamoto_Musashi)**, *[A Book of Five Rings](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Book_of_Five_Rings)*

Every art starts with a purpose, but at some point loses it purpose and becomes

## THE END
